---
title: "0x00000002"
---

{{< image width="200" height="200" src="https://yt3.ggpht.com/a/AGF-l794e91D6af4lVlFfdvsFSLckdwXNL5CihTR3Q=s900-mo-c-c0xffffffff-rj-k-no" >}}

In 2017, a previously unknown YouTube channel named
[Petscop](https://youtube.com/channel/UCZKQv0ZFHpeIUkOtNjtq4KA) started
uploading really bizzare videos.  The videos were alleged recordings of an
unreleased PlayStation game with the same title, produced by a company called
Garalina.  A quick search shows no official record of either this game or the
production company.  There is a certain "Paul" who walks us through the game in
each recording, though he does not always commentate.  In total there are 24
such recordings available on the YouTube channel, along with a "Petscop
Soundtrack".  If this is the first you've heard of Petscop, please watch all of
these from the beginning; and please do not look either at the comments on each
video or on other people's opinions on Petscop until you have finished the
whole series, so that you don't spoil it for yourself.

If we assume that Petscop was created by an artist with the intention of being
what it is, then it would be nothing short of a masterpiece.  It would be
tantamount to poetry of the greatest order, because it substitutes words, whose
use can be seen as an attempt to adhere to logos, with visual and audio cues,
which connect with our emotions more directly.  And if you really look into
Petscop as critiques of poetry look into a poem, you shall come across
fragments of a story that is of a highly disturbing and startling nature.  The
horror.  Almost nothing else comes close.

The reason I mention Petscop in the context of _Hotel World_ is that the way
Ali introduces each story reminds me of it very much.  In "past", for instance,
the very first paragraph has no punctuation, and is followed by muddled
statements like "Here's the story; it starts at the end".  The only difference
is that each story in Hotel World eventually makes some sense, whereas in
Petscop we just go deeper and deeper into the rabbit hole.
