---
title: "0x00000007"
---

The 1997 film _Good Will Hunting_ stars Matt Damon as Will Hunting, a
mathematical genius who so ironically happens to be---or, more appropriately,
chooses to be---a janitor at MIT.  His intellect is perceived by a fictitious
Fields Medal winning MIT professor, named Gerald Lambeau, when he is caught
solving what are shown to be difficult mathematical problems on a blackboard
outside the classroom.  He is, however, deemed guilty by the local court for
beating an old bully to a pulp and is required to serve jail time.  Lambeau
talks with the judge and manages to bail him out on two conditions: that he
work with him on mathematics, and that he see a therapist.  He is subsequently
taken to several therapists; each attempt in vain, as he never complies with
their procedure and mocks them instead.  As a final resort, Lambeau takes Will
to a college friend of his, Sean Maguire (played by Robin Williams) who now
teaches psychology at a community college.  The rest of the movie is a
cinematic account of Will's psychological condition and how it evolves
throughout the course of his therapy sessions with Sean.

I could give pedantic remarks regarding how the mathematical side of the movie
was flawed---and it does, I believe, diminishes by some quantity the belief in
Will's talent that the movie expects or even requires of the viewer; at least
for the mathematician-minority---but that would be wholly beside the point; the
psychology of a 20 year old self-taught genius not just in mathematics but
in academics generally.  I want to focus, in particular, on one of the
points articulated by the film in this regard; namely, that Will's
rejection of society, to put it somewhat dramatically, secretly originates
from issues of personality that have nothing to do with society at large.
That the film indeed asserts this can perhaps be made out most
distinctively from the scene, in the latter half of the film, where, when
asked by Sean what he really wants to do, he says that he wants to be a
shepherd in Nashua.  Sean's immediate response to this, which was to kick
Will out of his office, was not aroused by a belief that to be a shepherd
is a waste (which is what I initially thought), but rather by his
observation that Will was consciously and deliberately denying what he
actually wanted to do.  This view is also supported by the scene where Will
is interviewed by the NSA, as he simply conjures what in their essence are
noble sounding excuses for the not-so-noble goal of staying in denial, of
giving in to inertia.  I single this out because it fits in perfectly with
one of the characters in _Hotel World_: Elspeth.

There are numerous similarities between the Will at the beginning of the film,
and Elspeth; for one, they both had acquired an expertise at swearing by
"living on the streets" (figurately for Will but literally for Elspeth).  This
is perhaps worth a closer look, but I believe there are more pressing
similarities to consider.  For instance, neither of them are willing to accept
help.  This is evident in the case of Will by the way he mocks all the
therapists that Gerald tries to set him up with.  One can see this holds for
Elspeth too by her recollection of a woman at the station, on page 44, who
reminds Elspeth that she can get help if she wanted to, for free, if only she
asks.  Both Will and Elspeth also taught themselves, by making use of public
libraries.  Will, in fact, takes great pride in this, as can be deduced from
the scene at the bar where he meets Skylar for the very first time.  This is
not ordinary.  It is not common for people to teach themselves and study by
themselves, no less at a public library, especially when they have a full-time
blue-collar job (in the case of Will) or when basic necessities like a home are
absent from their lives (like with Else).  I wish to claim that this, and the
aforementioned fact that neither Will nor Elspeth is willing to receive help
from others, is a consequence not of the noble principles or ideals they may
strive to achieve, but rather of their cowardice and inability to act in spite
of their inertia, and that these latter attributes are themselves
reverberations of their horrible, appalling experiences growing up.  These
would then imply that Else is not living with integrity, but is rather trying
to hide herself, like Will initially was.  However, I am at a loss here as
regards logic, for I do not see any clear cause-and-effect relationships
between these three things.  Maybe that's a leap I need to make in order to be
indoctrinated as a psychologist.
