---
title: "0x0000000b"
---

_Seize the Awkward_ is a campaign by the American organisation _Ad Council_,
which strives to "tackle the most pressing issues facing the country" by "using
the power of communication", that seeks to get people to talk to their friends
about their mental health; even if it seems awkward to do so.  Their website
contains information about how to properly deal with mental health issues, and
most importantly, how to "seize the awkward".  But their primary vehicles for
spreading awareness are video commercials.  I will be discussing the commercial
titled _The Awkward Silence_.

This commercial encourages people that notice the signs of mental health
adversity in one of their friends to talk to them about it, even if it seems
awkward at first.  Since the people in the commercial are famous celebrities,
it reaches more people and thus each viewer is more likely to take the
commercial's message of reaching out and talking more seriously.  Furthermore,
each of these celebrities is shown to be in the same roomwhile trying to "seize
the awkward", which suggests to the viewer that everyone feels the same
awkwardness when trying to talk about mental health with their friends and
family.  This comforts the viewer and makes such discussion less daunting for
him or her.  This effect is also achieved by the playful music that plays in
the background throughout the commercial, which puts the viewers into a joyful
mood and subsequently makes the serious topic of mental health more
approachable.  Towards the end of the commercial, the celebrities speak in
parts separated by different camera shots to complete a sentence together; this
tells the viewer that one can only help solve mental health issues by working
together with others, and signals him or her to connect with their friends and
family to help them with their mental health.  Finally, the warm yellow color
of the on-screen text makes the reader believe that it is a friend telling them
how to deal with real-world problems, and not a teacher teaching them how to
talk.  This makes the viewer much more likely to take action and help others
with their mental health.

The other commercials in the campaign reinforce these messages.  In the
commercial titled _Seize the Awkward_, the feeling of awkwardness is
personified and is shown to appear in several very different circumstances.
This supports the idea apparent in _The Awkward Silence_ that everyone
invariably comes across awkwardness everyday, and that they need to learn how
to "seize" it.  The other commercials that feature the "Awkwardness Guy" also
employ upbeat music, which further encourages people to realise that
awkwardness is normal and can be overcome easily.

But this commercial does not directly help anyone suffering from mental health
issues; in fact, it could worsen their situation.  The playful music that plays
in the commercial is jarring for someone directly affected from mental health
problems and their psychological state might even lead them to thinking that
the music is mocking their situation, which would only exacerbate their
condition.  Furthermore, if a person with mental health issues notices that
they do not have anyone reaching out to them as the commercial suggests, it
might make them cynical and thus less likely to ask for help: this commercial
would hinder their belief in such campaigns entirely.

However, there are other commercials in the campaign that do achieve this goal;
specifically the interviews.  The music in the interviews is often melancholic
and much less upbeat, which makes the interviews appear more realistic to the
viewer.  Combined with the personal stories of the celebrities that deal with
their own history with mental health, the music thus allows any person going
through such struggles to relate and feel comfort, and they therefore take the
advice of the celebrities and the campaign more seriously.

This commercial thus plays an important role in teaching the general public how
to deal with the global issue of mental health, and the rest of the campaign
strengthens their message.
