---
title: "0x0000000a"
date: 2022-01-10T20:54:22+02:00
---

As Astrid Erll and Ann Rigney explain in the opening words of the second 2006
issue of the European Journal of English Studies, titled _Literature and the
Production of Cultural Memory_, literature plays three interdependent functions
in the creation of cultural memory.  Firstly, literary texts may act as the
media of remembrance.  Thus a literary text may be used to record the actual
events and happenings of the past.  Secondly, literary texts may themselves act
as the objects of remembrance.  This is apparent in the canonical texts of the
past, such as ancient Greek tragedies and poetry, because they are constantly
"rediscovered": they are always being reconsidered and re-evaluated by scholars
and academics.  Finally, literature can be a medium of observing the production
of cultural memory.  It is this last function that I wish to explore through
_Götz and Meyer_.

The narrator of _Götz and Meyer_, in an attempt to reconstruct his family tree,
is shocked by the horrors he discovers that surround his ancestral past, and
implicitly tasks himself with reconstructing a history of the entire
functioning of the Fairgrounds camp in Belgrade.  He employs two methods to do
so.

On the one hand, he makes positive claims that may be verified or falsified
based on documented evidence, like an academic historian would.  This is
clearer in the beginning pages of the novel, for instance when Albahari writes
"The truck was a Saurer, a five-tonner with a box-like body, 1.7 metres high
and 5.8 metres long, and it could be hermetically sealed" (3), or "... after
successful trial runs with Soviet prisoners of war in Sachsenhausen, by the
spring of 1942 they had completed the production of thirty special trucks,
twenty large ones like our Saurer, and ten small ones, Diamonds or Opelblitzes"
(8).  These are claims that one may justify by referring to archived
information, as the narrator himself surely discovered them in the Museum of
Jewish History that he went to in Belgrade.

But more remarkably, he also resorts to his imagination to reconstruct the past
throughout the novel and in fact condemns academic history for its
shortcomings.  Thus, he would rather have a conditional history that accounts
for the emotions and experiences of the people in the past than a reliable
    history that fails to do so.  The two men he exercises his imagination most
    on, as the title suggests, are Götz and Meyer.

By making imaginative assumptions and claims about the experiences of Götz and
Meyer, he tries to recreate the life of the average German soldier under the
Nazi regime.  Such a soldier, for example, "felt no burden at all" (7) while
committing atrocities and "never thought for a moment of what was to come" (3).
The soldiers are thus represented as both emotionally strong and emotionally
ignorant.  However, that "there can be no talk, here, of tears, but something
clutched in his chest, pressure from within him and from without, he could
barely breathe" (14) and the narrator's concession that "it is simplest, of
course, to fall back on stereotypes" (2) suggest that the former representation
is a product of Nazi propoganda and is unjustified.

The novel thus allows us to see a literature teacher in a bipolar process of
producing cultural memory; on the one hand, he employs document- and
evidence-based arguments to determine the state of the Jewish community in
Belgrade during the Nazi reign, but on the other hand, he uses his imagination
to conjure likely but uncertain accounts of the people that lived at that time
and place.
