---
title: "0x00000010"
date: 2022-09-10T13:55:27+02:00
draft: false
---

Our theme song for this academic year, as our English teacher said, is _Can I
Kick It?_ by the old-school hip-hop group A Tribe Called Quest. It's a
wonderful song, and, as if introducing us to this ever-fresh rap group was not
enough by itself, she subsequently lavished us with some IB-style questions to
think about the song. They have to do with the IB course concepts of
__creativity__ and __transformation__, which are the two concepts I feel I
haven't done justice to in my personal reflections on the texts and BOWs we
have covered in class. Instead of answering the questions directly like in a
formal exam, though, I'll just play along with these concepts; because _I can
kick it_.  In any case, the questions were as follows:

1. How are the samples transformed by their usage by A Tribe Called Quest?
2. Is the creative aspect of the original intensified or weakened by the
   transformation? Or neither? 
3. What (creative or transformative or other!) roles do samples play in this
   song or other songs that you may know of?

The song uses four samples, according to [Who
Sampled](https://www.whosampled.com/A-Tribe-Called-Quest/Can-I-Kick-It%3F/samples/)

* [Walk on the Wild
  Side](https://invidious.sethforprivacy.com/watch?v=oG6fayQBm9w) by [Lou Reed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lou_Reed)
* [Spinning Wheel](https://invidious.sethforprivacy.com/watch?v=oca2-uumYyI) by [Lonnie Smith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lonnie_Smith_(jazz_musician))
* [Sunshowers](https://invidious.sethforprivacy.com/watch?v=QdRnRr7pLSk) by [Dr. Buzzards Original Savannah Band](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dr._Buzzard%27s_Original_Savannah_Band)
* [Fun](https://invidious.sethforprivacy.com/watch?v=wKpVxOMNofg) by [Sly & the Family Stone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sly_and_the_Family_Stone)

The one most talked about is the first one; apparently Lou Reed allowed Tribe
to use the bassline from _Walk on the Wild Side_ only on the condition that all
royalties from the song go directly to him. The bassline from this song plays
in the instrumentals at the beginning and at the end of _Can I Kick It?_,
accompanied with a sample from _Sunshowers_. I am not able to locate the other
two samples in the song.

The use of the song _Walk on the Wild Side_ is interesting because it was
rather revolutionary when it came out. It talks about several things that were
taboo at the time, like transgenderism and male prostitation. The context
behind this song is a little too much for me to digest right now, but the song
basically shows four [Warhol superstars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warhol_superstars)
inviting the listener to "take a walk on the wild side". I think the purpose
of the song is basically to show that these "abnormal" (at the time) people exist
and that just by walking a bit on the other side of the road you'll realise
that they're perfectly normal.

The fact that Tribe samples this song is really cool. The "can I kick it?"
essentially refers to a person asking if he can actively ignore something ---
because you kick something you really don't care about --- and in the context
of Reed's song it can mean ignoring social norms. The genius of the song is the
fact that it repurposes Reed's song, which had a much different, perhaps
serious "vibe", into something playful that everyone can move to.  This is done
by the use of the other samples. If you listen closely to the Reed sample at
the beginning, it doesn't really go with the video because the video is much
more upbeat than the bassline, but the "jazziness" of the next few samples that
are used renders the song playful.

Another song that makes effective use of a sample is [_Lost in the
Sound_](https://invidious.sethforprivacy.com/watch?v=7l48bfQuJeE) by [Chill
Bump](https://www.chill-bump.com). Very, very underrated hip-hop duo. The
sample used by Bankal in this song is from [_Week day
lament_](https://invidious.sethforprivacy.com/watch?v=If2iNtQ0P7k) by
Belgian musician [Pierre Rapsat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pierre_Rapsat).
Here also (as in _Can I Kick It?_) the sample is played at the beginning,
during the choruses, and at the end. So the sample provides a framework
to the song.

The use of _Week day lament_ --- a song about a man literally lamenting his
weekday who is attracted by the birds singing outside, etc. and wants to be
free (I think) --- along with Bankal walking in the streets at the beginning
has always given me a dreamy, nostalgic feeling; I really am "lost in the sound"
whenever I hear it. In the song Miscellaneous (the rapper) talks about how
he's broke because he has dedicated himself to music and doesn't have a stable
job, so the use of this sample at various points in the song, specifically the
words "life brings me down, in dreams of sound", work to highlight this aspect
of his life; that he is brought down by societal forces because he dreams too
much about music to be able to play an ordinary role in society. So we see
here a song which takes another song (_Week day lament_) and explores what it is
like if we "invert" it: Rapsat's song is about a man who laments his job and
monotonous life and wants to escape into his "dreams of sound", while Chill Bump's
song shows that a life in which you follow your dreams is, while seductive, not
easy to manage.

By the way, Chill Bump has some other very interesting songs, which explore a
whole stream of different topics, especially politics. Miscellaneous' lyrics in
other songs are very critical of current politics. My favourite in this regard
is pretty much the entire album _Going Nowhere_, which discusses the affinity
of society towards staying constant and always resistant to change. The song
_Nothin New_ for example shows the transformation of a person who realised the
problems in society and was initially willing to move and act to bring about
change; he gradually loses his willingness to act seeing how few people support
him. The way the lyrics depict this transformation is really cool and
demonstrate interesting uses of lyrical structure. Another good one is
_Me, My Word and My Testicles_; the title refers to how the speaker is isolated
by society and the only things he can rely on are himself, his word (him
sticking to his promises), and his testicles (his courage).

I could go on but I think I should retire seeing how late it is.
