---
title: "0x00000008"
date: 2022-01-08T20:54:22+02:00
---

{{< image width="564" height="864" src="KASHMIR-10016.JPG" title="Kashmir Flower Seller" >}}

This photograph, taken in Srinagar, Kashmir, showcases a flower seller carrying
flowers which comprise a range of illustrious colours on his boat.  He is
wearing a white cap and white shirt under khakhi clothing, while paddling with
his left hand at the top end.  Aside from the boat, the picture contains only
the river, embellished by the swimming algae, and the plantation found on
either bank of the river; both of these emphasise a similar shade of the colour
green.  The river looks rather long, in that its two banks seem to converge at
a distant point in the picture.

{{< image width="864" height="581" src="/assets/INDIA-10330NF.JPG" title="If you know the title, email me." >}}

The second photograph above depicts a man with dark black hair wearing the
traditional shirt-tie-trousers office-worker outfit looking towards the right
at what is likely be a flower vendor (as evidenced by the flower basket that is
barely in the frame), while four shirt-less men with grey or white hair, bent
downwards, work on mending shoes.  The man is in the center of the photograph
and is sitting barefoot on a wooden crate with one of his hands inside one of
his shoes.  Two of the four cobblers are sitting on a wooden floorboard which
lies just above the heads of the other two.

Together these photographs offer to us a commentary on the global issue of the
dissatisfaction in individuals which arises from their work responsibilities.
Both of the photographs deal with this issue, but they allow us to view it from
different perspectives.

McCurry's choice of a sombre colour scheme in the second photograph evokes a
sense of monotony surrounding the work of the cobblers.  The presence of the
shirtless workers juxtaposed with that of the seemingly-well-to-do
shirt-wearing person in the middle is used to represent the inequality that has
arisen in the urban world between the rich and the poor, whose existence is a
source of discouragement for city workers in the economically lower section.
Each of the cobblers' heads points towards the person in the middle, whose
presence is also accentuated by the white clothing he wears which appears in
contrast to the other colors in the background, but the person looks in a
completely different direction.  This brings out the hierarchical structure
that exists in today's society and highlights in particular how people at
higher ranks in the hierarchy do not care about people further down.  Combining
this with the observation that cobblers, who earn meagre amounts of money, are
seen to be working diligently while the office worker is staring at a flower
basket shows again how unequally society treats workers.

The first picture of the rural flower seller, however, represents a much more
optimistic and satisfying way to live life.  His flowers, with all their vivid
colours, symbolise joy, which allows him to think of his job as bringing joy to
people instead of just working in order to earn enough money to survive; his
work is given meaning.  The warm colour of his khakhi clothing, which he
presumably wears everyday during work almost as a uniform, suggests the notion
that he is at peace with his work.  His boat can be seen to symbolise freedom;
he can steer it according to his will, as he is in control.  This photograph
shows, in stark contrast to the Mumbai one, how a rural job can have much more
meaning and ultimately be much more satisfying than a similar paying job in the
city.
