---
title: "0x00000009"
---

## How do Ali Smith and Sofia Coppola represent the idea that suffering exists because of our memories and imagination?

I recently watched a [talk](https://youtube.com/watch?v=w7irEcQHChw) held at
the Harvard Medical School about anaesthesia and consciousnees, featuring
Sadhguru.  YouTube has been pushing Sadhguru for a while now, and though I
don't watch anything on YouTube that I don't open it for, I had a particular
disdain for such videos as I thought he was just another fraud Babaji; but I
was quite wrong.  In my defense, there actually are numerous fraud Babajis in
India.  He said many profound things, and one of them was that we humans suffer
simply because we are just as good at remembering events that took place
moments ago as we are at remembering events that took place years ago, and
because we are so keen on imagining events that will never ever take place.
The more you think about it, the more this idea appears as an axiom of human
existence.  It certainly provides an interesting look into _Hotel World_ and
_Lost in Translation_.

Not even a coherent paragraph passes in the first chapter of _Hotel World_
before the ghost of Sara Wilby expresses a strong desire of something: the
feeling of having a stone in her shoe.  She imagines what it would be like to
have such an itch; or a foot, for that matter, that is able to pass along this
sweet agony of a stone constantly pressing against it.  This is followed by her
wish to have another chance, another shot at her fall, so that she may get a
better time.  On the very next page she explores the thought of having a
mouthful of dust.  These wishes of Sara's ghost were chosen by Smith, and they
serve to convince the reader, if the ghost's words fail to do so themselves,
that Sara's ghost longs for life now that it is deprived of it.  The other
chapters, however, take different approaches.

Elspeth is someone you would expect to be depressed.  She lives on the streets,
begs for money, and is medically unsound.  But her imaginations, as portrayed
in _present historic_, paint her as someone who is confident about her way of
living and even takes pride in it.  Consider, for example, the following: "She
likes to wrap relevant things round her feet.  BRITAIN MASSIVELY MORE UNEQUAL
THAN 20 YEARS AGO.  ONE IN FIVE PEOPLE LIVES BELOW BREADLINE.  These
subheadings are cushioning her heel. Ha" (45).
