---
title: "0x0000000f"
date: 2022-09-03T20:54:22+02:00
draft: false
---

The IO is coming around. Better write another entry lest the IBO should think
I'm practicing some secret doctrines of academic dishonesty. I have chosen to
do my IO on _Nineteen Eighty-Four_ by George Orwell and the _BBC Opinion
Columns_ of George Monbiot. Their first names coincide due to sheer coincidence,
unless the latters parents were fans of Orwell. My GI will be "governments
achieving authoritarian power." I think this satisfies the criteria of the IO
as it is present all around the world, affects everyone on local and national
scales, etc.

I will begin with saying some things about Monbiot. He is an investigative
journalist and an environmental and political activist. His writings are thus
about how the world is crumbling due to capitalism, authoritarianism, climate
change and pollution, etc. He has been writing a weekly column for the Guardian
since 1996. He has travelled to remote places in the world and lived with
indigenous communities, protecting their livelihoods.

This is also the case with Orwell, who travelled a lot during his time and
discovered the evil nature of British colonialism. Orwell believed that sending
a political message is the sole or at least primary purpose of writing.

I will be focusing on Monbiot's column titled _Pegasus spyware is just the
latest tool autocrats are using to stay in power_, which warns about how
governments around the world (and the British government in particular) are
increasingly using surveillance tactics to maintain their power. There are
several devices he uses to do this: the use of red, underlined hyperlinks, for
example, long lists, and irony.

* Red, underlined hyperlinks. The general effect is a strong and distict
  emphasis on the highlighted text; sometimes positive and sometimes negative.

    - "... we have seen ever greater snooping on citizens, from the
      surveillance networks developed by the government intelligence agency
      GCHQ and exposed by __Edward Snowden__ to the undercover police deployed
      against peaceful protesters, some of whom they deceived into __sexual
      relationships__. The cops promised, as revelations from this scandal
      piled up, to reform themselves. But last week, a former police officer
      who joined Extinction Rebellion alleged that the Metropolitan police had
      sought to __recruit him__ as a spy" (Pegasus spyware).

    - "Consider the concentration camps __Britain built in Kenya__ in the
      1950s.  'What concentration camps?' you might ask. If so, job done. When
      the Kikuyu people mobilised to reclaim the land that had been stolen from
      them by British settlers and the colonial authorities, almost the entire
      population – over 1 million – were herded into __concentration camps__
      and fortified villages. One of these camps, as if echoing Auschwitz, had
      the slogan __'Labour and Freedom'__ above the gates. Even Eric
      Griffith-Jones, the attorney general of the colonial administration in
      Kenya, who was complicit in these crimes, remarked that the treatment of
      the inmates was __'distressingly reminiscent of conditions in Nazi
      Germany'__" (UK History).

    - "Powerful politicians, such as the __Republican congressman Steve King__,
      talk of defending 'western civilisation' against 'subjugation' by its
      'enemies'. Minorities are __disenfranchised__.  Immigrants are herded
      into __detention centres__" (Trump and Johnson).

* Long lists. They have the effect of overwhelming the reader, suggesting that
  something is utterly ubiquitous or inevitable.

    - "Narendra Modi, Viktor Orbán, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Jarosław Kaczyński,
      Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko all know how it works" (Pegasus
      spyware).

    - "Dark ads on social media; thinktanks using dark money to turn outrageous
      ideas that favour the ruling class into apparent common sense; voter
      suppression; the stuffing of the courts; the long march through the
      institutions, shutting down opposition in the civic sphere; cleverly
      prosecuted culture wars: these are the ever more sophisticated tools of
      autocratic power in nominal democracies" (Pegasus spyware).

    - "For the past 35 years, our political freedoms have been eroded by a
      series of draconian acts of parliament, imposed by both Conservative and
      Labour governments: the Public Order Act 1986, the Trade Union and Labour
      Relations Act 1992, the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, the
      Terrorism Act 2000, the Anti-Social Behaviour Act 2003, the Serious
      Organised Crime and Police Act 2005, the Transparency of Lobbying,
      Non-Party Campaigning and Trade Union Administration Act 2014, the Trade
      Union Act 2016, the Covert Human Intelligence Sources Act 2021, to name
      just a few" (Pegasus spyware).

    - "Were there more details of the massacre of civilians in Malaya? Of
      Britain’s dirty war in Yemen in the 1960s? Of the catastrophic famine the
      British government created in Bengal in 1943, by snatching food from the
      mouths of local people and exporting it? Of its atrocities in Aden and
      Cyprus?" (UK History).

* Irony. What is the effect of irony? I can never really seem to put a finger
  on it...

    - "The new surveillance tools complement a formidable array of modern
      weapons." (Pegasus spyware).

    - "Donald Trump is no longer in office not because the US system worked,
      but because he was an inept autocrat: unfocused, impulsive,
      contradictory. He did not possess what Modi, Putin, Orbán, Erdoğan,
      Kaczyński and Lukashenko possess: a strategic, sophisticated drive for
      power" (Pegasus spyware).

Orwell's classic _Nineteen Eighty-Four_, on the other hand, illustrates a
totalitarian ruling party that has perfected the use of constant surveillance
in order to prevent any ideological deviance in the masses. I choose the
following lines:

> He opened the diary. It was important to write some-
> 
> thing down. The woman on the telescreen had started a
> 
> new song. Her voice seemed to stick into his brain like
> 
> jagged splinters of glass. He tried to think of O'Brien, for
> 
> whom, or to whom, the diary was written, but instead he
> 
> began thinking of the things that would happen to him
> 
> after the Thought Police took him away. It would not
> 
> matter if they killed you at once. To be killed was what you
> 
> expected. But before death (nobody spoke of such things,
> 
> yet everybody knew of them) there was the routine of
> 
> confession that had to be gone through: the grovelling
> 
> on the floor and screaming for mercy, the crack of broken
> 
> bones, the smashed teeth and bloody clots of hair. Why did
> 
> you have to endure it, since the end was always the same?
> 
> Why was it not possible to cut a few days or weeks out of
> 
> your life? Nobody every escaped detection, and nobody ever
> 
> failed to confess. When once you had succumbed to
> 
> thoughtcrime it was certain that by a given date you would
> 
> be dead. Why then did that horror, which altered nothing,
> 
> have to lie embedded in future time?
>
> (106-107)

This extract merits some more thinking.
