---
title: "0x00000004"
date: 2022-01-04T20:54:22+02:00
---

_Hotel World_ is a story about five people who are "brought together---and
forced apart" by an incident involving a dumb waiter at one branch of the
Global Hotel chain.  The story takes place in Britain, from 1999 to the early
2000s; the time and place can be inferred from the third chapter titled 'future
conditional', specifically from pages 108 and 112.  Smith touches on a number
of profound topics in this book, and thanks to her literary genius, she does so
in strikingly artistic ways.

The character brought to focus in the first chapter titled 'past' is a 19 year
old female swimmer named Sara Wilby.  She died in an accident involving a dumb
waiter at a branch of the "Global Hotel" chain of hotels---she got into a dumb
waiter in order to show a colleague named Duncan that she could fit in... one
can extrapolate the rest.  The narrator of 'past' seems to be the ghost of this
girl, and we are brought to distinguish between this ghost and her physical
body; they go on to share dialogue later in the chapter.  This already ascribes
to us quite a unique perspective, but as if that wasn't enough, the tone of the
chapter is not grim and formidable as one would expect it to be.  On the
contrary, 'past', along with most of the remainder of the book, appears to be
written in a strangely playful manner.  One can find "whooooo-hooos"s and "ha
ha"s and knock-knock jokes, for instance, when they are least expected to
arise.

The distinction that Smith draws between the ghost and the body raises an
interesting question of identity: which of these is actually Sara?  On page 9,
Smith writes "We were a girl, we died young" affirming that before the accident
the ghost and the body were one.  But later on we see the ghost referring to
the body in the third person, suggesting that after death Sara's identity
encountered a split.  Sara had a sister, and interestingly enough, the ghost
refers to her as "the sister" or "your sister", the latter when it is in
conversation with the body, and similarly for her mother and father; whereas
the body refers to them as its own sister and mother and father.  So, for
whatever reason, the familial relations stay (and die) with the body, and it
would seem as if the body is closer to "being Sara" than the ghost.  The body
also remembers the words which the ghost forgets (the word "dumb waiter", for
example), so the body is, in a sense, "more capable" than the ghost.  But there
is the obvious catch: the body has to stay shut in a coffin several feet
underground, whereas the ghost can fly around and pass through people and
buildings.  The body can recall, but the ghost can observe.
