---
title: "0x00000012"
date: 2022-10-08T20:54:59+02:00
draft: false
---

I just finished reading "The Hearth and the Salamander", the first section of
Ray Bradbury's _Fahrenheit 451_. I love it. I think I am going to use this text
with Albahari's _Götz and Meyer_ for my comparative analysis paper. These two
texts have in common their use of irony and figurative language. I love irony
and figurative language because, in my opinion, they add depth to any
literary (or non-literally) work when used effectively, and I love to explore
these depths. In this LP entry I will do the following

1. Summarise "The Hearth and the Salamander";
2. Write character sketches for the important characters (Montag, Mildred,
   Clarisse);
3. Compare/contrast the critique of technology in _Fahrenheit 451_ and _Götz and Meyer_.

Note that I have not done comparative analyses properly yet, and this is still
the LP, so the analysis here might not be especially satisfactory.

# Summary

The first section of the novel introduces us to the world the story takes place
in as well as the primary characters in the story. The novel takes place in
late-20th century US, in a world where the printed book has been banned; if a
book is found in your household, "firemen" come over to burn your entire house
down. Our protagonist is Guy Montag, one of these firemen, with a wife named
Mildred Montag. At the beginning of the novel he takes great pride in his job,
but upon meeting a very curious 17 year old girl named Clarisse McClellan he
realises that he is not happy and is tired of how ignorant everyone around him
is.

Briefly, in the society Montag finds himself in, everyone is scared of being
unhappy.  They do anything and everything to avoid the feeling of unhappiness,
including driving "beetles" (cars) at very high speeds and killing animals that
come in the way, immersing themselves in "parlours" (highly interactive
television sets), or, as in the case of Montag and his colleagues, destroy and
burn houses. Everyone wants to have fun all the time, everyone wants to be
distracted all the time. Guys' wife is often described as lifeless because she
is either always in the parlour or has her "Seashells" (earphones) on.

Guy had always been in denial, though he only realised it after meeting
Clarisse.  He had been hiding books in his home and was always scared of being
found out. We see this primarily in the parts of the novel talking about the
Hound, the deadly robot dog that catches anyone even mildly suspicious. We also
see this in his interactions with Beatty, whom he is scared of because he has
said many suspicious things to him. Clarisse disappears one day, probably dies.

The key event in "The Hearth and the Salamander" is the operation in which
Montag, with his colleagues, is forced to burn a house down along with the
woman in it. The woman evidently loved books and was willing to die for them,
and even quoted the last words of Hugo Latimer (a 15-16th century English
Protestant priest, who was burned by his contemporaries in the beginning of the
16th century for heresy) when told to flee the house. She did not leave, and in
fact lit the fire herself.

This was the final push that Montag needed. He did not go to work the next day,
emptied his stash of books on the floor, and decided to read them with his wife
Mildred. The first section ends here.

# Character Sketches

I will describe each character starting from each of two seleted quotes.

## Guy Montag

> "Of course I'm happy. What does she think? I'm _not_? he asked the quiet
> rooms" (17).

This quote shows Montag in a state of denial. He is not willing to accept the
fact that he has spent his whole life living a lie, not knowing that his
happiness was akin to ignorance. He is not happy. That he is asking this to the
quiet rooms, which evidently do not reply, shows that he secretly knows the
answer. We see by way of this quote also how Clarisse gradually tore down his
fake self-identity, that of a proud fireman in an ignorant world. Montag does
not accord any ethos to Clarisse in this quote, he thinks that she is too young
to know anything ("What does she think?"). Through his interactions with
Clarisse, Montag eventually accepts the conclusion that no, he is not happy,
and decides to act upon it by finally reading the books he had been hiding.

> "'I need you so much right now, I can't tell you'" (87).

Montag says this to his wife when he finally opens his ventilator grille and
extracts the books from there. This quote shows that despite his recognition of
how empty his wife had become in terms of emotions and thought due to her
mindless use of technology, he still gives her another chance to regain her
humanity. He needs the version of her that is alive to survive and essentially
to be happy again. This is also seen in Montag's use of the nickname "Millie"
when addressing Mildred. The name "Mildred", acoustically, echoes the word
"dread"; but since Montag loves her, or perhaps because he wants to love her,
he refers to her using a shorter, more melodic name: "Millie".

## Mildred Montag

> "'Hey,' she said. 'The man's _thinking_!'" (29).

Mildred says this to Montag when the latter tries to tell her about her
overdose. Through the emphasis placed on the word "thinking", Mildred ridicules
her husband for thinking.  This shows that taking the time to think has become
almost a taboo act for her and perhaps more generally in the society she lives
in. This reflects Mildred's own ignorance: she does not like to think, or to be
made to think, about anything.

> "'_I_ am.' Mildred's mouth beamed. 'And proud of it'" (85).

Mildred says this after Montag tells her that he is not happy. This once again
is representative of her ignorance, as she does not realise that she is
unhappy; she feels happy only because she is utterly immersed in the various
gadgets she uses all day and because she runs away as soon as she smells even a
pinch of melancholy, by driving her beetle and runnning over animals. The pride
she feels in "being happy" is a perfect illustration of the strong deterrence
to unhappiness that her society has accepted and normalised; she feels pride in
doing what she does because everyone else does the same and because the media
_forces_ everyone to believe that they need to be happy. 

## Clarisse McClellan

> "'I like to smell things and look at things, and sometimes stay up all night,
> walking, and watch the sun rise'" (14).

This quote describes Clarisse's overflowing curiosity to feel and to experience
the world.  The actions mentioned in this quote are not undertaken by "normal"
people who have too little time to go around observing new things and staying
curious. This distinguishing quality of Clarisse brands her the title of
"anti-social" by those around her, since she does not spend all her time
watching the parlour walls or going to Fun Parks, even though she is perfectly
social --- arguably more social than the average person actually, as she only 
ever talks about important things.

> "'Do you ever _read_ any of the books you burn?'" (15).

The fearlessness and braveness of Clarisse are highlighted in this quote. The
question asked by her is a very dangerous one indeed, no less when posed to a
fireman. Reading books or even owning them is a severe crime in Bradbury's
world, which could be an invition to firemen such as Montag to come and burn
your house.  Had she asked this to a fireman other than Montag, it is very
likely a similar thing would have happened to her. Montag did not do anything
because he was already at this point flirting with the idea of reading books,
since he had a bunch of them hidden in his ventilator grille at home.

# Technology in _Götz and Meyer_ and _Fahrenheit 451_ 

Both Albahari and Bradbury criticise the role technological advancements play in
society, but while Albahari uses verbal irony to do so, Bradbury uses figurative
language and imagery.[^1]

In _Götz and Meyer_, Albahari presents a powerful critique of how the Nazis
employed technology to facilitate their mass killings. The idea of using
engine exhaust instead of carbon monoxide to undertake their killings is,
for instance, referred to by the narrator as a "brilliant innovation [...]
that was, after all, key to the further advancement of mass-murder technology" (8).
The irony in this quote lies in the apparent encouragement that the narrator
confers onto this efficient but otherwise despicable idea. The use of the
interjection "after all" suggests additionally that the development of
"mass-murder technology" is something to be supported without the need for any
reflection, further deepening the irony. Albahari also plays on the positive
connotation that the word "advancement" has in everyday discourse, since
it is naturally a good thing for something to advance or improve, adding more
weight to the irony. The irony is continued in the lines that follow this quote,
when the narrator makes referrence to the unchanged interior in the killing
trucks having "a salutary effect on the victims" (8). Saying that the retaining
of normal truck interiors has a salutary, or beneficial, effect on the people
being killed makes the irony far, far more drastic, since the victims were
nonetheless being killed in a revolting, despicable, and inhumane manner,
whether they are aware of it or not.

Bradbury, on the other hand, illustrates through the character of Mildred the
horrible effects of the unfiltered adoption of new technology. This is
exemplified, for instance, in his description of Mildred as having "hair burnt
by chemicals to a brittle straw" (65). The image of brittle straw --- straw
that breaks easily when handled --- almost evokes fear in the reader, since not
only is hair an important part of our bodies, we take pride in its health. The
hyperbolic use of the verb "burnt" works in conjuction with the image of
brittle straw to powerfully describe how the chemicals, a result of
technological advancement, have ruined Mildred's hair.

[^1]: I wanted to explore this further but unfortunately I do not have enough time right now. In writing this paragraph I realised just how much I love _Götz and Meyer_; I will be spending a lot more time studying it and I am definitely going to use it for Paper 2.
