---
title: "0x0000000d"
date: 2022-01-13T20:54:22+02:00
---

In _Medea_, Euripedes portrays the stereotype of women being incapable of
acting on their own.

After revealing her revenge plan to the Chorus, Medea begins a monologue with
Jason in which she tries to appear agreeable to Jason and make sure her plan
goes smoothly; in doing so, she concedes several degrading traits that are
stereotypically associated with women.  She says, for example, that she has
been "selfish, and stupid, and weak," but she attributes this to her being a
women (49).  This suggests that women are, almost trivially, "selfish, and
stupid, and weak," and thus cannot act ethically, rationally, and bravely on
their own.  Jason later agrees that this is the case when he says that it is
"only natural for a woman to get angry when a husband brings another marriage
into the house", because women are not expected to see "the logic of it" (50).
The concession of Medea juxtaposed with the approval of Jason, which he even
expresses explicitly (50), strengthens the idea that woman cannot act on their
own.

On the other hand, Euripedes also provides an extreme example of how women can
manipulate men to do what they need them to do.

Medea first manipulates Aegeus into granting her security in Athens.  She asks
Aegeus to pity her (41), and confesses that she is weak against the royal power
of the house of Pelias (43).  Both of these go against Medea's evident sense of
pride that she herself expresses, for example, when she says that she "was born
for a life of the greatest glory" (46).  Thus, she paints herself as weak and
helpless in front of Aegeus so as to extract his help; which he quite
easily offers her.  Then Medea manipulates Jason into believing that she is
completely in accordance with his intentions.  In the same monologue
referenced in the previous paragraph, she willingly admits to everything
Jason accused her of: she recoginises her "wild temper" that Jason has had
to "put up with" for years; she illustrates an understanding of Jason's
argument that marrying the princess is beneficial for them, by suggesting
that Jason "thinks only of what's best for us"; she even gives the
impression that she has everything she needs by posing rhetorical questions
such as "Do you not have the children?".  However, she does not believe in
any of this for the same reason as with Aegeus.  By manipulating Jason in
this way, she is able to carry out her scheme and, in her own crooked way
--- owing to the extremely taboo nature of the scheme, which culminated in
downright infanticide --- reign victorious against Jason.
