---
title: "0x00000011"
date: 2022-09-12T20:43:38+02:00
draft: false
---

I often listen to LoFi music when working because it helps me focus, especially
if there are people around talking. There are many channels on YouTube that
upload LoFi mixes --- I prefer mixes to looking up individual tracks --- but
there is something common among these channels. Since YouTube allows people to
upload videos, which are audio _along with_ motion picture, LoFi mixes on
YouTube are almost always accompanied by an animation or at least a still
picture. In many cases, the title also plays an important role as it helps
clarify the context underlying the animation or picture.

My go-to LoFi channel is
[Dreamy](https://invidious.sethforprivacy.com/channel/UCYVyQv2rUtCMxJAFSuOSpmg).
I think I have gone through most of his/her mixes; the one I will talk about
here is titled [You left me
alone](https://invidious.sethforprivacy.com/watch?v=UnB6ck40aCw).

{{< youtube UnB6ck40aCw >}}

The mostly-still animation features a woman in violet clothing and hair who is
in the middle of lighting a cigarette, with a large blue city looming in the
background amidst lightning from a dark night sky. The title is, of course,
_You left me alone_, which suggests that this woman has been marginalised by
the city for being different. The trees around her show that she would rather
find herself in nature that is untouched by man than among the absurdly large
skyscrapers that exist in the city. Her lighting a cigarette illustrates how
she does not think it necessary to fuss over being left alone and wants to
remain calm, as people often smoke to relieve their stress. Her indifference to
being isolated is also visible from her extremely smooth hair. Nevertheless,
she is left disappointed by the city, as is visible from her barely open
eyelids. She also feels a sort of lonely cold, which can be seen from the thick
jacket she is wearing; the cigarette is hence also an attempt to regain her
warmth.

I looked up what the colour violet usually signifies and found
[this](https://www.color-meanings.com/violet-color-meaning-the-color-violet/)
website. The page actually presents numerous in-depth nuances of the colour
which would together lead to a very rich analysis; but such an analysis would
also be too long, so I will focus only on some of the mentioned features. One
of the key features mentioned on the page is how violet represents spirituality
and wisdom. This goes along with the above paragraph, where the woman is seen
to be brave and composed enough to leave behind the city and embark on her own
personal journey --- she has found wisdom. That violet represents wisdom also
supports the contrast between the blue city and the woman's violet attire.
According to the [same
website](https://www.color-meanings.com/blue-color-meaning-the-color-blue/),
the colour blue can represent a sense of conservatism, passiveness, and
sadness; accordingly, the city in the background appears too conservative and
passive, which is what drove the woman to leave, and also sad, the sadness
comprising in the thought of what it could have been had they been more
accepting of people like the woman in the picture.

The title is also interesting in that it personifies the city, which is referred
to using the second-person pronoun "you". This suggests that the woman had a
very personal relationship with the city. Perhaps she came to the city looking
to fulfil her dreams, or perhaps she treated everyone in the city with love
and respect (violet also inspires selfless love according to the website).
Whatever the case, something bad happened and she was made to leave.

This reminded me of _Nineteen Eighty-Four_, but it is hard to make a strong
connection because Winston and Julia were not allowed to leave their society.
Moreover their personalities do not exactly match that of the woman here.
