---
title: "0x0000000e"
date: 2022-01-14T20:54:22+02:00
---

Since the LP is supposed to be a living, breathing document, I have removed all
the dates.  I did not like them much either; they only showed how inconsistent
I have been with independently thinking about my English class.  I have also
decided to be more confident and a little more raw in my ideas and actually add
them here, because it has often happened that I come across an interesting
connection, try to write about it, and give up in exhaustion from polishing my
thoughts.

In this entry I want to talk about _Hotel World_ again.  I recently got an
email from Vivanta, a rather high-end luxury hotel chain in India, saying that
they recently opened a new hotel in Navi Mumbai, not far from where I used to
live before I came to Belgium.  I looked up some pictures of the place, and
sure enough, it was luxurious.  But the pictures got me thinking: luxury hotels
are completely artificial.  They take the aesthetic dispositions that humans
generally possess and exploit it to create an experience that is most pleasing
to our senses.  This is antithetical to a life in the woods, for instance,
where the source of aesthetic pleasure is the surrounding that has developed
naturally over the years.  Since _Hotel World_ deals with a hotel, I was thus
brought to wonder how this artificiality manifests itself in Smith's work.

Firstly, there is the title "Hotel World" itself.  Here "World" is a noun and
"Hotel" functions as an adjective.  So if hotels represent artificial pleasure,
then "Hotel World" would refer to a world riddled with artificial pleasures.
Is the fictional world of _Hotel World_ presented in such a way?

The book begins with a critique of artificiality on the very first page.  Let
us take the following quote as the object of our discussion:

> It was the height of the summer when I fell; the leaves were on the trees.
> Now it's the deep of the winter (the leaves fell off long ago) and this is
> it, my last night, and tonight what I want more than anything in the world is
> to have a stone in my shoe.
- (3)

In this quote, Smith uses antithesis and symbolism to depict Sara's pain at not
being able to appreciate the real pleasures in her life.  The antithesis of
"height" and "deep" creates a strong contrast to show how Sara thought she was
happy when alive but is now, in the aftermath of her death, disappointed at all
the things she did not fully enjoy.  The antithesis of "summer" and "winter"
further strengthens this contrast, as summer is understood as the hopeful and
warm time of the year when the sun is out and kids are playing, whereas in
winter everyone is indoors and it is cold.  The use of the parentheses in the
second sentence also contrasts with the use of the semicolon in the first one
and emphasises the time elapsed between the summer and the winter; the
semicolon is used to draw emphasis to the fact that the leaves were on the
trees, whereas placing "the leaves fell off long ago" in parantheses turns it
into a passing comment that no longer holds any relevance.  This emphasis on
the elapsed time between the seasons augments the gravity of her
disappointment.

The symbolism comes with the last part of the quote: "a stone in my shoe".  The
stone here is a symbol for the rawness of nature, and the shoe for modernity.
Sara wanting to have a "stone" in her "shoe" shows that she wants to feel the
real pleasure that arises out of nature in the midst of the pleasure that she
gets from artificial creations like a shoe.  Her regret at her inability to do
so during her lifetime is visible in the fact that she now wants it "more than
anything in the world".  Since having a stone in one's shoe brings about a
certain degree of pain, it shows how Sara now realises, albeit after death,
that real pleasure allows for an indeterminable amount of inconvenience (which,
by the way, is not allowed in a hotel).
