---
title: "0x00000013"
date: 2022-10-17T23:03:51+02:00
draft: false
---

The quote at the bottom of page 93 of _Fahrenheit 451_ is from James Boswell's
_Life of Johnson_, a biography of his close friend and writer Samuel Johnson. It
is often called the greatest biography ever written. The quote specifically is
from the part where Boswell and Johnson meet a certain Dr. Butter in Durby.

> "We cannot tell the precise moment when friendship is formed. As in filling a
> vessel drop by drop, there is at last a drop which makes it run over; so in a
> series of kindnesses there is at last one which makes the heart run over."

By citing this quote about friendship here, Bradbury shows Montag in a state where
he questions every basic principle he knows, and by doing so reminds us that when
we lose our ability to understand such intuitive principles as friendship, books,
and specifically those about people who lived rich and interesting lives (such as
Johnson and Boswell), allow us to get back on track.

The quote on the next page is again by Boswell, in "Letter to Sir William Temple".
Temple was an English diplomat and essayist of the 17th century.

> That favourite subject, Myself.

Through his ironic usage of quotes from a large selection of texts in a story about
censorship, Bradbury insinuates that literary censorship inevitably leads to
illegal procurement of contrabanded texts. This is apparent once we look at the
specific quotes that he chooses and where he places them in the novel. For instance,
by having the lady who died in the fire say the final words of Hugo Latimer, Bradbury 
portrays her as a strong woman who is not scared of putting it all on the line
for her freedom. In this way, Bradbury highlights the fact that censorship of the
extreme sort as shown in _Fahrenheit 451_ only acts as a fuel for people who
have it in them to take a stand. We see a similar but even more powerful usage
of intertextuality by Bradbury at the end of "The Hearth and the Salamander",
when Montag reads the following line from _Gulliver's Travels_: "It is computed
that eleven thousand persons have at several times suffered death rather than
submit to break eggs at the smaller end." In its original context, this quote
echoed, in an allegorical fashion, the historical fact that people of the past have
more often accepted death than submitted to the rule dictated upon them by their
leaders. By placing this quote at the end of the first section, when Montag has
finally succumbed to his temptation of reading the books he had hidden, Bradbury
astutely reiterates the inevitability of revolt, and the inevitability of a
literary uprisal following extreme censorship.

I now make a connection between the character of Montag in _Fahrenheit 451_ and
that of Elsepeth in _Hotel World_. Both of them are presented, by the
respective authors, as feeling alienated from the society in which they live,
though for subtly different purposes.

By way of his portrayal of Montag as a fireman who feels lonely because no-one
else realises the horrible state of American society, Bradbury subtly
underlines the isolating effect that arises from living in a world dominated by
the ignorant.  An important instance in the novel in terms of Bradbury's
commentary on loneliness is when he writes, "Montag said nothing but stood
looking at the women's faces as he had once looked at the faces of saints in a
strange church he had entered when he was a child" (123), the simile being
developed further throughout the paragraph. Bradbury here depicts Montag as
being in a state of awe, directed at the utterly disappointing women he is in
the presence of; disappointing because of the ignorant and simply dehumanised
comments they constantly make amongst each other.  The comparison of the
women's faces with those of the saints seeks to insinuate that the women
understand what they are saying, as saints profess to understand religious
matters, though Montag apparently does not understand them, as evidenced by
Bradbury's use of the adjective "strange"; even though the saints at the church
understood in depth what they were saying, Montag was not able to understand
them because of some strange quality they possessed. Montag's inability to
comprehend the women's obliviousness to both reason and compassion is what
leads to his feeling of isolation, since these women represent the average
person in Bradbury's imagined America.  Bradbury's commentary on isolation and
loneliness in society is subtle since it is overpowered by the more promiment
themes of the novel, such as that uncontrolled technological progress destroys
the human capacity to reflect and to produce knowledge, and is only discussed
at certain points in the book, mostly through the lens of Montag's character.

Smith, on the other hand, through her characterisation of Elspeth as a homeless
woman yearning for human affection, castigates contemporary society for its
insistence on technological development at the expense of social connection.

This actually deserves or rather requires an entire essay to itself because I
talk about Smith's use of characterisation in supporting an important theme,
which cannot really be discussed in one paragraph. Essentially, I would talk
about Else going around looking inside houses in "Perfect" and how this shows
that she wants to be loved. I would definitely discuss Smith's critique of
technology using both "Present Historic" and "Perfect", since the difference in
point of view is an important element of her critique. I swear, all my LP entries
take at least 134 hours each.

By the way, I don't think I have yet gotten the idea of "compare/contrast",
because I am still treating the two texts seperately (although I discuss some
element that is common to both of them).
